I like to think
I bring something unique to the show.
I tell jokes,
-I wear one-off fashion shirts.
-Morning.
Hang on, Mum, I have to put you on hold.
Are you wearing the same shirt as me?
-[Prue] Hi, guys.
-Morning, Prue.
What? Both of you? [scoffs]
Well, at least Paul's still my friend.
That looks good in green as well.
Shall we start the show?
[all] Welcome to
The Great British Baking Show.
[Noel] I usually do that.
[Sandi] Now, it's bread week.
[Michael] Paul will definitely prod it
and say,
"Underproved, overcooked, overbaked, bad."
[Sandi] And the judges
are upping the ante...
[exclaims nervously]
...with a Signature
designed to be torn apart.
[Prue] Do a bit of tearing and sharing.
[Sandi] A Technical sliced into chunks...
Let's just hope they're soft and cooked.
[Sandi] ...and an arty Showstopper...
Don't wanna take this step.
It's too nerve-racking.
...that demands creativity...
Don't overthink it.
...as it's slashed to pieces.
[Rosie] I'm trying not to rush
and mess up my design.
-Pressure.
-[Henry] This is the most sick I've felt.
[exhales sharply]
Be calm, it's fine. It's just bread.
[theme music playing]
Oh! I feel mixed about bread week.
Argh! Bread! [laughs]
I feel like that painting
with the Scream mask.
I'm like, "No!" [laughs]
[Helena] If someone says,
"What's your favourite food?"
I go, "Bread."
But I don't actually bake it often.
[Michael] I'm not particularly confident
on bread.
I've got a bit of bread dread.
[Amelia] This week,
I want to show what I can do,
"prove" myself. Bread pun.
[Henry] I've learnt to make bread
in the past week or two.
You can learn a lot in four days,
I've discovered.
Morning, bakers. Welcome to bread week
and your Signature Challenge.
You probably don't know this,
but bread's quite a big deal for Paul.
What Paul doesn't know about bread
can be written on a tiny crouton.
-I don't think he'd deface a crouton.
-No.
It's like a religion to him,
so no pressure.
[chuckles]
[Noel] For your Signature Challenge,
the judges want you to make
a filled tear-and-share loaf.
[Sandi] Your loaf can be sweet or savoury,
but it must be made
with yeasted bread dough,
and then shaped and baked as one loaf,
ready to be torn apart.
[Noel] The flavours and the fillings
are entirely up to you.
-You have three hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
-Bake.
This is the most sick I've felt.
[Phil] Bread, bread.
Right, okay. Bread.
I need to be on it.
I just need to breathe.
[breathes deeply] Breathe.
Tear-and-share,
it's not as simple as you think.
[Prue] It's got to be
a big tear-and-share.
It has to be a yeasted dough,
and it has to be filled
with something delicious.
[Paul] If the bakers keep it simple,
simple flavours and a good base dough,
they'll do really well.
Make it more complicated,
they're probably gonna struggle.
[Henry] This is charcoal,
which is a nightmare.
It goes on everything,
and I don't wanna get it on my jumper.
If this gets on my clothes,
I'll be very unhappy.
-It's not bad.
-A work of art.
[Noel] When not slicing up humongous
homemade cakes for dad Simon,
Henry can be found wielding
another set of blades in the local park.
Today, he's getting adventurous
with a chicken and pesto tear-and-share,
in the form of a striking chequerboard
of black-and-white brioche-style bread.
Have you tried this out with your friends?
I've tried it out with my parents.
-They said it was all right.
-"All right"?
My mum's quite a harsh critic.
-[Prue and Sandi laugh]
-Nice to meet you, mate.
This is the only time that's happening.
-[all laughing]
-Yes.
[Prue] We need a photograph of that.
Oh. Get a still of that. Please do.
[Sandi] But he's got competition
when it comes to packing powerful flavours
into the first prove.
It's looking okay.
I'm just gonna add my seaweed.
Seaweed from Pembrokeshire.
My tear-and-share is called Noson Caws,
which is "cheese night" in Welsh.
I just like cheese, so,
I've gone with that sort of flavour.
[Sandi] Born and raised in Cymru,
highly accomplished baker
Michelle's primary passions
-are Welsh cheese and Welsh rugby.
-Ooh!
-Whoa! He dropped it.
-[Ben laughs]
[Sandi] Opting for
the cheesy tastes of home,
Michelle's tear-and-share
will have two different breads
baked around two different Welsh cheeses.
One's an Angiddy,
one's a Golden Cenarth.
They're from close to me.
I'm going down the Welsh theme again.
-You're not Welsh, by any chance?
-No. [laughs]
[Noel] Having travelled
all over the globe,
Michael's taking inspiration
from a little further afield.
[Michael] It's based on flavours
from Kerala, in the south of India.
And it's completely invented,
which makes me a bit nervous.
So, steady pace.
[Noel] When at home in Warwickshire,
Michael's day job as a fitness instructor
helps him burn off
any exotic bread calories.
His decorative red-and-white
Keralan star bread
will be flavoured with coconut
and what's rapidly becoming
his trademark - a kick of chilli.
Michael, will you go easier on the chilli?
I've taken out one of the chillies.
-[chuckling]
-Remember his gingerbread?
-Yeah.
-[laughing]
[Sandi] Today,
the judges have got chilli on all sides.
I'm making a brioche dough-style
chilli and Manchego tear-and-share.
So, gone very Spanish.
Want a biscuit?
[Sandi] When vet Rosie
isn't tending to her pets,
she can be found
sticking surgical equipment from work
into her bakes.
In addition to spicy red chillies,
her Manchego tear-and-share will be filled
with Mediterranean vegetables
in a tangy balsamic reduction.
Tell us about your dough.
That's very wet.
[Rosie] It's a brioche-style dough.
I'm calling it "style"
because I have to add flour.
But it still comes out
with a light, buttery structure.
I tried it with other doughs,
it wasn't as nice.
It'll be interesting to see
what the texture's like.
Oh, dear. [chuckles]
[Michael] I'm kneading the dough,
so I'm trying to build up gluten.
That sounds legit, doesn't it?
So, that's what I'm doing.
[Alice] I need to calm down,
that's what I need to do.
I "knead" to calm down. Yeah.
I just want baked bread,
that's all I want.
Come on.
-Do you juggle?
-Yeah.
This is a challenge, isn't it?
-Oh, you can.
-Course I can.
You have to, if you're a comedian.
[laughing]
About ten minutes, you knead it for.
This is a focaccia.
Representing my family heritage
from Italy.
Grazie, grazie.
[Noel] Phil's ancestors
eventually settled in Essex,
where he's lived all his life,
and now raises two daughters
with wife Angela.
Phil's focaccia tear-and-share
will be packed with garlic, herbs,
cheese and smoked pancetta.
I'm a sweet guy.
Do like a bit of cake,
but I could walk past the sweet counter,
straight to the savoury section.
Going in to prove.
Gonna prove for about an hour.
[Sandi] During the prove,
the live yeast ferments away,
creating gas
that causes the dough to rise.
[Phil] Prove number one,
hopefully double in size.
[Sandi] But overdo it
and it will collapse in on itself.
Start. I'm on time.
This is amazing. This has never happened.
Once it's risen, I can put the filling in,
which I'm gonna make now.
It'll be pesto time next.
These are just olives going in the pesto.
We've got a nice pesto corner here.
It's lovely.
[Steph] He'll do it better as well.
[Sandi] When Steph isn't pounding
the treadmill in trainers,
she's selling them in just
one of her three part-time jobs.
You okay there?
[Sandi] Steph's star-shaped Parmesan
sun-dried tomato and pesto tear-and-share
will be packed with zesty ingredients,
including her own
very special basil sauce.
[Steph] There's an element
of me that thought it was a faff,
but it does taste better
than shop-bought pesto.
[Sandi] Staying with Italy, we move from
Genovese pesto to a Neapolitan classic.
[Priya] The fillings,
with the pepper and the onion,
it's almost pizza-ish.
But that is...
I could eat pizza five days a week.
[Noel] Mum of two,
Priya lives in Leicester,
and regularly bakes for
large extended family get-togethers.
Her flower-shaped smokey jalapeño
tear-and-share
will be packed with spicy,
cheesy flavours,
and the titular Mexican chillies.
How much jalapeño?
When I first made it,
my dad thought it was great,
but my dad eats chillies
on the side of a curry.
As I've moved away from my parents,
I've had less spice in my food.
So, I've cut the jalapeño down.
[Sandi] Yet another baker treading
a fine line with spice is Amelia.
[Amelia] I've got harissa paste,
chorizo, peppers, onions, a bit of garlic.
It's got a bit of a kick,
but it's really tasty.
[Sandi] When she's not using
spicy Spanish pork,
proud Yorkshire lass Amelia
loves to source local produce
for her bakes.
[Amelia] They're so cute.
[Sandi] Her brunch tear-and-share
will be laden with punchy flavours,
spices and harissa.
Are you scared of bread week?
-Yeah.
-[Noel] Paul's gonna come in hard.
I mean, bread's his thing.
He's part bread.
-Have you seen his chest?
-No! [laughs]
His torso, it's like a baguette.
[chuckles] I often just reach in
and pull a tuft out,
and then just chow down.
How long have we got left?
Bakers, you are halfway through.
Halfway through.
I think it's nearly ready.
[Noel] The bakers must juggle
proving versus baking time.
But if the first prove
hasn't done its job,
their loaves will be too small and uneven.
[Rosie] It's got a bit of aeration.
Be all right. "Be all right," she says.
[Amelia] Ooh! It's got quite big,
hasn't it?
[Phil] That's about the right size for me.
[Helena] Definitely doubled in size.
Happy with that.
I'm gonna roll it into a rectangle
and then fill it and roll it.
[Michael] With the filling,
you don't want it to be wet,
because it'll just make the dough soggy.
Then Paul will definitely prod it and say,
"Underproved, overcooked,
overbaked, underproved,
over-kneaded, wet, bad."
[Henry] Chicken's looking good.
If all else fails, I'll give them
the filling in a bowl.
[Rosie] I've put the Manchego cheese in,
and now I'm just adding
my caramelised peppers and onions.
[Phil] Cheese gone in, pancetta's in.
-Okey-doke.
-This is my cheese,
my pancetta, my onion,
and then I'm gonna top it with walnuts,
and then roll it up.
[Steph] Actually,
this is kind of like a pizza.
Obviously, not mozzarella, but still.
[Priya] What's wrong with pizza?
Who doesn't like pizza?
[Sandi] But not all the bakers
are making savoury tear-and-shares.
It's kind of baklava flavour.
-Baklava?
-[Alice] Yes.
I think it originates from Turkey.
Don't quote me on that.
You're a geography teacher.
Which country it comes from
is probably important.
Alice herself comes from Essex,
and both her parents are dentists.
Mmm. It's great.
[Sandi] Teenage rebellion for her
took the form of a sweet tooth.
-Think Paul and Prue would approve?
-[Alice's mum] Mmm.
[Sandi] Alice's baklava-inspired
tear-and-share ring
will be flavoured with honey,
orange blossom, spices and nuts.
My problem with baklava,
generally, is that it is so sweet.
But perhaps with bread dough...
-[Alice] Mm.
-...it would tone down some of that.
Yeah. I've got such a sweet tooth.
[Noel] She's not the only one
trying to seduce the judges with sugar.
[David] I'm making cinnamon rolls.
I love cinnamon rolls,
absolutely love them.
I'm doing it quite simple, really.
The issue then is, it has to be perfect.
[Noel] When he's not knocking up
bread and cakes,
super creative David likes to make
inedible items he has to bake.
It's a bit wonky.
[Noel] His cinnamon tear-and-share
will be made of twisted bread rosettes
and topped with vanilla buttercream.
[David] It's quite classic.
Where'd you say buttercream's classic?
On top of a cinnamon roll.
Buttercream or cream cheese frosting.
I'm putting it in the middle,
-you don't have to eat it. [chuckles]
-Okay.
[Sandi] But there's a baker here
that's willing to take on
David's cinnamon challenge.
[Helena] I'm making cinnamon rolls.
I love them.
I have them for breakfast.
It's great to cook them at nighttime,
and then wake up,
put them in the microwave. Delicious.
[Sandi] Helena developed
a taste for American bakes
when she lived in Las Vegas.
Good boy.
[Sandi] She's now settled near Leeds,
with her husband Will, daughter Flora,
and rescue dog Cato.
Helena's tear-and-share cinnamon rolls
will be smothered in an unctuous layer
of cream cheese frosting.
My preference is to have them very gooey.
This might have to be tear and share
with forks.
-[Paul] And a bib.
-Get in there, Prue!
It is a messy eat.
[laughs]
[Alice] This is the bit I'm nervous about.
I'm just trying to keep it fairly tight.
[Helena] Roughly, I'm gonna cut them
into one inch.
It has loads of cinnamon in it.
[David] You've got to put
enough cinnamon on
to get a good cinnamon hit,
but too much, it'll taste bitter.
[Priya] Twist away.
[Noel] With fillings integrated,
the bakers shape and style their doughs.
[Phil] This is the family tree.
It all ties in.
[Noel] What they do now
will ultimately determine
how good their baked bread looks.
[Amelia] I've got to be careful
when I'm putting them in,
so it's not obvious
that they're very different sizes.
[Rosie] They're smaller than normal.
Normally, it fills the tin.
[exhales] I don't know.
[Henry] I'm doing art,
I'll have you know.
I am borderline thrilled with that.
[Amelia] Let's go in the proving drawer.
[Michelle] This is the prove
before it gets baked.
[Priya] It doesn't need long.
20 minutes may be fine,
but I'll just keep checking.
[Michael] Let's see how they go.
[Alice] Happy enough.
Bakers, you have one hour left!
One hour!
-[Priya] What?
-[Noel] It's bread week, kids.
[Henry] It's like a sauna in there.
I mean, it is doing something.
So the yeast is working.
But I could give it an extra five,
ten minutes.
[Sandi] Timing is critical.
The bakers have to give
their second prove long enough
to develop volume and texture,
whilst making sure
they have enough remaining time
to bake their loaves to perfection.
[sighs] It is rising, slowly but surely.
Did I sound confident enough?
[chuckles nervously]
I totally know what I'm doing.
Oh, gosh. It's tense, isn't it?
[Helena] I'm taking them out.
[Amelia] Got to come out.
It looks all right.
[Phil] It looks pretty good.
I don't know until it comes out the bag.
Resembles what it looked like at home.
[Alice] It's definitely puffed up.
[Rosie] It's not proved very well.
It will rise in the oven.
That's quite disappointing.
You've only got half an hour left!
[voice breaking] I hope that's enough.
Wow. Just the voice broke at the end.
[all laughing]
I'm so emotional!
-[chuckles]
-[Helena] They look the way they should.
So, I'm just gonna bake them now.
[Michael] I'm going in. It's happening.
[Henry] They do look like breasts.
They look all right.
That's going in at 170
for about half an hour.
Hopefully it'll be done,
'cause we've ran out of time.
Please, just do your thing.
I'm gonna say half an hour,
but I'm gonna check on it
'cause it's got a habit
of not cooking in the middle
and teasing me.
[exhales sharply] And... chill.
I'm gonna have a lie down. [chuckling]
I'm just gonna sit here
and watch it and wait.
I'm just gonna go to sleep
down here. [chuckles]
Have a nap. Have a siesta.
[Rosie] I need to not stare at it.
That's not gonna help. [sighs]
Oh, come on, balls.
Come on, balls. Cook nicely.
[Alice] I don't like waiting.
I'm so impatient.
[exclaims nervously]
[laughing]
Cheese looks amazing.
Look at it bubbling out the top.
All I can smell is cheese, Michelle,
and I hate cheese so much.
It looks beautiful.
I'm sure if you like cheese,
it tastes great.
Bakers, you have 15 minutes!
Paul did it for me.
-Nice.
-He's very gentle.
[Helena] It's annoying
'cause I would normally
take them out of the oven now,
'cause that's the way I like them.
But I know Paul will say
they're undercooked.
It's that finger that prods in the middle.
[sighs]
[Rosie] It's looking more
like it normally does now,
but it's done that through baking,
not proving.
I don't know what that's gonna do to them.
Probably something Paul's gonna hate.
[chuckles nervously]
[Michelle] They're not ready.
How long have we got left?
Bakers, you have five minutes left!
[Helena] I'm taking them out.
[David] I think they're done.
Ready.
[Amelia] Got to come out.
Would like it a bit more golden.
I just won't tell anyone else that.
[Henry] They look fairly done.
[Phil] Looking good, smelling fine.
Yeah! That looks all right.
[Priya] That's fine.
It's a dark dough, anyway.
It's really pale. I don't know why.
[Steph] It looks all right.
Looks good to me. Very satisfied.
[Alice] Checking that it's cooked,
and I think it is,
by some miracle.
[Henry] I'm happy.
I think it's gone all right.
[Rosie] Oh, God.
Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God. Oh, God.
[sighs]
-[clatters]
-Oh, yes!
That's the noise we wanted to hear.
Oh, yeah. That looks all right.
[Noel] Maybe you should do that
with a flourish.
Have you seen Paul baking?
-He's like a ballet dancer.
-Really?
-[Noel] He's light on his feet.
-Interesting.
He's got tiny, tiny feet.
I can't say I've ever noticed.
He's like Fred Astaire. [chuckles]
[Sandi] Bakers, you have one minute!
[Amelia] It looks all right, doesn't it?
[Rosie] Just need to decorate slightly.
[Henry] I think I'm good now.
Bakers, that is it. Your time is up.
[Sandi] Place your tear-and-share
at the end of your benches.
[Phil] Bon appétit. Arrivederci.
Grazie. Ciao, bella.
[Noel] The bakers'
tear-and-share breads...
-[Prue] Hello, Henry.
-You okay?
[Noel] ...will now face the judgment
of Paul and Prue.
-[Prue] The black and white works.
-[Henry] Yeah.
It's very dramatic and nice.
-[Prue] You can taste the pesto.
-Yeah.
[Prue] In fact, it's difficult
to taste anything else.
It's not bad, the bread.
It's a little bit bland.
I don't like the flavour,
and I don't know
how you've managed to do that
'cause you've got all the things in there
which should taste amazing.
[Paul] It's quite attractive.
[Prue] And the colour is lovely.
It's bone dry.
If you'd brought that out
five, ten minutes earlier,
you'd have been laughing.
-The pesto comes through.
-[Prue] It's beautifully shaped.
-And it's overbaked.
-[Paul] Yeah.
-[Prue] I think that's heaven.
-[sighs]
[Prue] I like that it's soft.
I like the flavour.
-I could eat a lot of it.
-Thank you.
[Paul] Your flavours are fantastic.
Thank you very much indeed. Thank you.
It's quite attractive.
It's quite dry.
You've just overbaked it slightly.
-But the flavours, I like.
-It is delicious.
Thank you.
[Paul] They're a bit irregular in sizes.
That one's massive, that one's minute.
It does look a bit thrown together,
but it may taste fantastic.
I hope it does.
Certainly hearty... chorizo.
[coughing]
-Bit of chilli there.
-[Prue coughs] Yeah.
Uh-oh. [chuckles]
That was not my intention.
-It's delicious--
-Got a bit of a kick to it.
What you need is
to chop everything up much smaller.
That's the problem.
You've got so much going on.
[Prue] She's big on flavour.
[laughs]
[Paul] Interesting texture.
It's a bit too doughy for me,
but who doesn't like
cinnamon and sugar in spades.
[Paul] The dried fruit,
you need to put more in.
Your actual bake, I think, is perfect.
That ain't no tear-and-share.
The problem is... it's covered.
-Right. Well, yeah, you'll get messy.
-[chuckles]
And the rolls are proved individually.
It is exactly like
an American cinnamon roll, a good one.
You slightly overbaked it.
I was scared
of you telling me that it was raw.
Damn it, Paul! It's your fault.
[both laughing]
-It's a bit messy.
-Rustic. I'd go with that. [chuckles]
It's wonderfully cheesy.
I like the texture.
That's one. Was that the other one?
[Michelle] That's black garlic
and truffle oil.
[Prue] Really nice.
The blend of the two are good.
You baked them well.
You've come up with some nice ideas.
[Prue] It looks very tempting.
-Like homemade bread you'd want to eat.
-[Phil] Mm-hmm.
[crunches]
[Prue] Hmm.
[Paul] The flavours you achieved
are beautiful.
-Thank you.
-Nice flavours.
Nice loaf that.
It's very cheesy.
You've got loads of flavour
and texture in there.
A beautifully baked dough.
Slightly overproved,
but otherwise, it tastes lovely.
Well done.
I love the effect of that.
-Very clever.
-[Prue] Very pretty.
-Brilliant.
-[Paul] Nice bake on the other side.
I like the coconut.
The coconut works well with it.
The kick from the chilli's enough.
I just love the red around there.
-[Helena gasping]
-Oh.
-[applause]
-[Michael laughing]
[exclaims]
I really like that, and I tell you why,
it's because I've never had
anything like it.
-Thank you.
-[Paul] That's why it's special.
I got the first handshake.
That's crazy.
My mum's gonna cry. [laughs]
She's gonna be so excited,
and I can't wait.
I can't wait to tell my friends
and my mum. [laughs]
It's official,
Paul Hollywood likes my bread.
I am a baker.
Not looking forward to Technical.
I never do.
Does anyone enjoy the Technicals?
[Sandi] The bakers were able to practice
their Signature Bakes,
but with ingredients shrouded in gingham,
the next challenge
will be a total mystery.
Time for your Technical Challenge,
and in a shock twist,
it has been set for you
by the bread king, Paul himself.
[Noel] It'll be judged blind.
I'll have to ask these two lovelies
to leave the tent.
Before they go, Paul, any words of wisdom?
It's not as easy as you think.
[Sandi] That's comforting. Right,
-off you go.
-[Noel] Off you pop.
They are off to do some
competitive dog grooming.
There's a poodle that Paul cannot wait
to get stuck into.
We'd better move along.
For your Technical Challenge,
Paul would like you to make
eight white burger baps.
Now, what is a burger bap
crying out for, people?
-Its mummy?
-No, a burger.
Paul would also like you to make
four veggie burgers
to go inside four of your floury baps.
-You have two and an half hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
-Bake!
[Michael] Oh, dear.
It sounds easy,
but I've never done them before.
[Michael] I have never made
a floury bap before.
If this works, then it'll be
a new thing I can make.
If it doesn't, I'll just buy them
like everyone else.
[Prue] Burger buns, Paul.
When I said,
"It's not as easy as you think,"
it really isn't.
You've got to develop the gluten properly.
If you don't, it'll be very cake-like
and not stringy.
-So, good kneading?
-Good bit of kneading,
and then leave it to prove
for half an hour, 40 minutes.
Look at the texture. See how light it is?
-It's lovely.
-The burgers are important, to a degree.
90% of our judging
will be done on the rolls.
Yeah, this is bread week, not burger week.
[Amelia] Number one, for the floury baps,
"Make the dough".
Cheers, Paul.
He might as well have said,
"Make a bap."
We've got the usual ingredients,
which is yeast, salt, flour and water,
but then on top of it,
we've got vegetarian lard.
Have you made floury white soft baps?
Floury white baps?
I've never made baps before.
I can't imagine
you're a bap kind of character.
What sort of character am I?
Wholemeal pitta bread?
-I'll take that.
-Prue's a crumpet. [chuckles]
[laughs]
-This has gone weird. Prue--
-[Henry] Sordid.
Let's take that out.
[laughs]
Step two, "knead the dough".
My kneading technique is...
I don't have one.
Oh, God. I think I'm nearly there.
I'm getting a bit tired.
[David] It's elasticky, smooth. Done.
"Knead the dough", "prove the dough".
[Henry] I'm gonna prove it
for half an hour, see what occurs.
Right, veggie burgers.
[Phil] Never made a veggie burger
in my life.
I'm a meat man.
Number five is, "Tip the black beans
into the bowl of a food processor
-and pulse to a rough mash."
-You didn't see that.
[Priya] I want it to be lumpy,
otherwise it is just mush.
I've had these veggie burgers,
the bad ones can be slop.
[Paul] I'm making man-size burgers,
half-a-pounders.
It could be like a fast food burger,
where it's thin.
Or like a good burger
where it's really thick.
And I'm gonna go for in the middle.
Right, freeze.
[Noel] Bakers, in Morse code, you have...
What the hell?
You're halfway through, my beauties.
It's weirdly pleasurable.
-Feel nice?
-Yeah.
[Phil] I'm having a look at my dough.
[Alice] It's doubled the size...
That's all I can ask for, really.
[laughing]
Feels nice.
[Sandi laughing]
It's a new game that we invented.
It looks like a bread dough.
[Michelle] I'm about to shape my buns.
I need to divide into eight pieces,
then shape into burger buns.
I...
don't know where to begin.
Let's make it an even number.
Maths.
[Phil] Eighty-five grams per ball.
So I've got this much dough left,
which is roughly
seven grams of dough per bun.
And I'm working out
whether it's worth putting seven grams
of dough back into each bun.
I don't want them to be too small.
Well, it's less than 10%.
Oh, less than 10%, sod it.
"Gently flatten each ball of dough
and place on prepared trays."
To me, if I have a burger,
I want a big bap.
I like quite a pert bun.
I'm gonna give it another prove
for about 15, 20 minutes.
[Priya] Where's my proving bag?
-[Noel] This is it, isn't it?
-No.
-Where's it gone?
-Is that your proving bag?
David, can I take this proving bag?
Are you using it?
I'll sell that later.
I'm gonna prove them for half an hour.
An hour and ten left.
I'll prove them for about half an hour.
Noel, I want a burger in half an hour.
Could you make that happen?
You got half an hour left!
-Half an hour!
-Thanks.
I've given my baps half an hour to prove.
I'm about to have a look.
They look quite big.
[Amelia] Still small.
I think the ones at the bottom
have proved slightly more.
They haven't really changed,
but I'm going with it.
"Twelve, lightly dust the baps
with flour, and bake."
Doesn't say for how long.
[Rosie] Hmm.
Right, they're going in t'oven.
[Henry] Do good things.
I'm gonna do 12 minutes
and then keep an eye.
Let's go for eight minutes
and see what happens.
Because, er, these soft ones,
I don't really know how you tell
when they're done.
Right, I'm gonna fry my burgers.
I'll cook them until they've browned.
They're purple, so it's hard to tell.
These burgers are not ideal.
[Michelle] How do I know how long
these are meant to be in for?
Look at them rising.
-They're like buttocks.
-[David] Yeah.
I think Paul will like that,
'cause he's manly.
What about Prue?
[Noel] She might be alarmed by the size.
Posh people tend to like small things,
-don't they?
-Yeah.
[Henry] Out they come.
Whoa! Nearly.
[Michelle] Still too small for my burgers.
I am fairly happy.
[Phil] Mine are overdone.
Bakers, you have five minutes left.
I'm gonna build them up.
-[Amelia] The moment of truth.
-Let's hope they're soft and cooked.
[Michael] The knife is dragging
through the roll.
They want it soft, they're soft.
But so is dough.
[Michael] "Assemble the burgers".
[Amelia] My burgers are massive,
-compared to my buns.
-And mine.
-I didn't use all my dough, did I?
-[chuckles]
[mockingly] "10% less won't hurt."
I'm trying to think what goes
first, though? Burger...
[Priya] Lettuce...
[Rosie] I don't know what I'm doing.
I don't eat burgers.
After this,
I definitely don't eat burgers.
I'd be happy to eat that,
even with a veggie burger inside.
I need skewers. [exclaims]
Bakers, your time is up!
-[Rosie sighs]
-Please bring your burgers and baps
up to the table and place them
behind your photograph.
My rolls are tiny.
[Sandi] Paul and Prue are looking for
eight beautiful floury white baps,
with four perfectly cooked burgers.
And they have no idea whose is whose.
[Paul] Right. These are all
pretty much the same.
They could've been a little bit wider,
but they've got some height to it.
-Quite chewy.
-[Paul] Mm.
The bun tastes pretty good.
These burgers...
It's got a nice blend of spices.
-I quite like that.
-[Prue] Yeah.
[Paul] All right,
bringing in the second one.
Let's have a quick look inside.
Breaking a bit.
That comes down to the mix.
[Prue] Nice flavour.
[Paul] Now, the burger itself, it's nice.
Moving on to number three.
The burgers are too big for the bun,
and the buns are irregular
and quite small.
Nice flavour, though, on that bun.
[Prue] It's a massive burger.
-It's not very tasty.
-No, it's not.
Moving on. Too dark.
It's got too much of a heavy colour.
It is a bit tight inside.
[Prue] This is a very crumbly burger.
[Paul] Mm. Moving on to the next one.
The colour of this is good.
The bottom of that one, it's quite doughy.
That line that sits underneath,
proof they're underproved.
[Prue] Again, the burgers
are much too big for the buns.
-[Paul] These...
-[Prue] Nice shape.
[Paul] It's got a bit more size to this.
Right. See how much more
open it is and irregular?
-[Prue] Yes.
-[Paul] That's a nice roll.
A quick taste of this.
-Not a bad burger either.
-[Prue] Very nice.
[Paul] This one's been
very kindly cut already.
Quite tight and down the bottom,
quite doughy. Massively underproved.
They're quite small and squat,
aren't they?
You can see that
when you look at the burger.
It's like a Scooby-Doo burger, isn't it?
Apart from chilli,
there's not a lot of flavour in that.
-There's chilli in that, isn't there?
-[Prue] A lot.
[sniffles] Wow. Er, moving on.
Let's have a quick look.
[Prue] It's a bit too chewy,
but I think
that's a well-flavoured burger.
[Paul] Right, moving on. Nice colour.
Again, small.
The flavour's nice,
but the texture's a little bit tough.
[Paul] Mm, moving on.
Been rolled up well,
and actually, the structure
for the top two-thirds isn't bad.
[Prue] I like the burger.
It's not too spicy.
[Paul] I like the look of these.
-They're much bigger.
-[Prue] These look really good.
-They're the right shape.
-[Paul] Let's have a look.
Look at that.
That's what you're looking for.
That's open all the way through.
It's a nice roll.
-The bun fits over the burger.
-[Prue] Hooray.
-That is really nice.
-[Paul] All-around, it's nice.
-[Prue] Good.
-[Paul] Interesting.
[Noel] Prue and Paul
will now rank the burger baps
from worst to best.
In 11th place is... this one.
Amelia, not mixed enough, too small,
a little bit doughy.
Fair enough.
In 10th place is this one.
Phil, rather uneven sized buns,
a little bit too small,
a little overcooked.
Still a good burger.
[chuckles] Thank you.
[Sandi] Rosie is ninth,
Helena eighth,
Alice seventh,
Michael sixth,
Michelle is fifth, and Priya is fourth.
Third spot is this one.
Steph, this was quite nice.
The only reason why you're third
is it needed to be slightly bigger.
In second place is this one.
It's an excellent burger.
Bun perhaps just a tiny bit tight,
but very good.
So in first place...
-Henry.
-[applause]
That is a very, very,
very good burger bun.
The structure was good,
it's well-baked, the burger was good.
Well done.
He looked at me deep in my eyes.
He said nice things.
After being tortured by their words
this morning, that was soothing.
[Amelia] Turns out,
10% of your dough can make
more difference than I thought.
Obviously, it's gutting.
You always want to do well,
but it just means
I need to do something good tomorrow.
Right, burger?
[indistinct chatter]
The people who seem to be doing
steadily quite nicely,
David, Priya perhaps, Michelle.
Yes. There's a couple of them
that could do well today
and end up with Star Baker.
But a group is gathering at the bottom.
I think Amelia's in trouble,
I think Rosie's in trouble,
er, Alice.
-It's gonna come down to the Showstopper.
-Yeah.
Are you gonna send two people home today?
It is a possibility.
It's a very strong possibility.
[sighs]
Welcome back to the tent.
It's time for your Showstopper Challenge.
The judges would like you
to create a display
of artistically scored decorative loaves.
[Sandi] Your display should be themed.
If it was a woodland floor,
there could be curling oak leaves,
acorns, conkers...
A squirrel grappling with a wet crisp bag.
That's the sort of thing.
Your display must contain at least
two impressively-sized loaves,
but this is really about the decoration.
It's about the scoring.
Basically, they want it to be
the best thing since, er...
-What's that expression?
-I can't remember.
-You got five hours.
-On your marks...
-Get set...
-Bake.
[Michael] I'm not
particularly confident today.
The stress is gonna be evenly spread
across the next five hours of my life.
Five hours seems like a long time,
but it really isn't.
[Prue] It's a five-hour challenge,
which sounds a huge amount.
But first of all, you want them to bake
several beautiful loaves.
They have to get them all kneaded.
They have to get them proved.
And then, of course, the actual scoring.
I don't usually score bread. If I do it,
it'll just be on the top.
[Paul] It's a tricky thing
to do with dough.
You want to cut
just through the skin of the dough,
so when it rises in the oven,
all those cracks will open up a tiny bit.
You don't want the heat to open it up
like a great wound.
This is a tricky challenge,
probably one of the hardest.
It's really skilful stuff.
[Sandi] Although only tasked with making
two large loaves to impress the judges,
all the ambitious bakers are making
multiple breads for their Showstopper.
[Amelia] It's hard to figure out
the timings for this.
To make the dough,
it doesn't take that long.
There's no space for them
to be in the oven at the same time,
so you need to stagger them.
[Michael] You want to get everything going
half an hour apart,
so I think it's all about timing today.
It's all timing.
[David] I'm going as quick as I can.
This is all or nothing.
It's go big or go home.
Or... go big, make a mistake and go home.
[Noel] Inspired by his time in Africa,
David's making tribal masks.
Each coloured dough
will be carefully scored
to reveal the one beneath.
He's also going to try and achieve
a deep sourdough flavour.
So I've been researching
how to do it quickly.
-I've used a lot more yeast.
-Yeast?
I'm using more yeast.
With high yeast, it often tears--
That's the danger
by adding the yeast and scoring.
They're not really conducive to creating
the delicate scoring you need,
-as it can just blow open in the oven.
-Yeah.
[Sandi] He's not the only baker
who's making life hard for himself.
[Henry] This is the fougasse I'm making.
You wouldn't normally score fougasse,
but I wanted to do it
because it's a quick bread to do.
[Sandi] Henry's opted
for two flavours of fougasse
with distinctive, decorative holes.
He'll also be making
two hearty rye breads,
as well as sage and poppy-seed flowers.
How are you scoring the fougasse?
It'll have the big slashes in, obviously,
but then I'll also just lightly score,
hopefully, little corn-ear patterns.
[Paul] Fougasse is not really conducive
for heavy scoring.
-It's a small amount to score...
-It is.
...but that's the plan.
[Alice] Haven't been to the gym this week,
but that's okay,
'cause I've been kneading bread.
Nice texture at the minute.
Get your guns pumping.
-Kneading again.
-Oh, here he comes.
Does it feel okay?
Not gonna tell me, are you?
-Nope.
-[exhales sharply]
-You ready?
-[cheers]
-[laughing]
-[sighs]
-Okay, good luck.
-Nice to see you.
-[Noel] Nice to see you.
-[Michael laughing]
So this dough is done now.
It smells so yeasty.
[Alice] That looks very smooth,
bounces back when I prod it.
That's gonna go prove
until it's doubled in size.
Hopefully about an hour.
[Steph] Number one.
[David] Still two more to go.
This is my rosemary, garlic and rye dough.
It's quite sticky.
Kind of tastes like stuffing. [chuckles]
If you like stuffing.
[Noel] Alice's scored loaves
will celebrate her love of geography
with a beetroot and walnut Union Jack,
her carrot and coriander compass
and a rye, garlic and rosemary globe.
-Is it gonna spin?
-Unfortunately not.
Never met anyone who loves geography.
I think it's wonderful.
-I think geography is much underrated.
-[laughs]
[Sandi] Alice's plan for world domination
has got competition.
Priya has designs on
a large stretch of the equator.
[Priya] I'm going for a tropical theme.
I've got a flamingo
and some, sort of, palm trees,
tropical leaves and a hummingbird.
Is the plan.
That's what they're supposed to look like.
[Sandi] Priya's tropical ensemble
will also squeeze in a peacock
amid foliage rolls.
Once baked, she's adding extra details
with natural food colouring.
It's more watercolour-like.
-It's gonna be pale pastel.
-[Priya] Yeah.
I honestly thought I cannot present
artificially decorated loaves
to Paul, cause it looks
like felt-tip pen on bread.
[Noel] But Priya hasn't got
the muted colour combos all to herself.
I am doing a hand-tied bouquet of flowers.
I'm going with subtle, nice blush pink.
[Noel] Steph's floral arrangement
will have a beetroot and rosemary loaf,
a rosemary and wholemeal lily,
a sunny sunflower, and breadstick stems.
It seems to be simple in its approach,
but it's about keeping that scoring
and that accuracy in the way it looks.
Thank you, Steph. Good luck.
[Steph] Simple's all right, isn't it?
If they didn't have to be here, that'd be
quite a lot nicer, wouldn't it, really?
[Sandi] More used to tending pets
and farmyard animals,
today, vet Rosie's exploring the exotics.
I'm making a bread safari.
I've got a truffle elephant,
a black garlic giraffe
and a sun-dried tomato lion.
Animals are just kind of my life anyway.
[Sandi] Rosie's African bread fauna
will be presented
in a baked savanna
of turmeric and coriander flora,
with beetroot and chilli wheat stalks.
I've never been on a real safari,
but there's a local safari park where
I grew up, and we loved going there.
[Noel] Handshake baker Michael
is also celebrating
one of his favourite destinations.
The flavours remind me of Mediterranea.
Mediterranium? Mediterranea... Italy.
[Noel] He's creating a bread campfire
with paprika and sun-dried tomato
sharing loaves,
red pepper rolls, ember rolls
and olive breadstick kindling.
Has the adrenaline worn off yet
from your handshake?
-[chuckles]
-Let's recreate that.
-Whoo!
-[laughs]
If I think you need a handshake,
I just dig him in the left buttock.
What happens when you do it
in the right one?
-That's for the private times.
-[both laugh]
[Sandi] Michael's not the only baker
inspired by fire.
Helena's using it in her continued
commitment to all things spooky.
Halloween is my favourite holiday.
Every day is Halloween in my house.
Every bake is Halloween in my house.
[Sandi] Lava stone rolls
and parmesan bread bones
will sit beneath a cauldron
of sesame snakes
with a pumpkin-shaped bread on top.
[hoarsely] I want to impress you.
What do you think?
Your voice, what's happened?
It's laryngitis, so it's just bad luck.
I'm gonna order you
a voice off the Internet.
What voice would you like?
[in Geordie accent] What about
a Geordie one, like that?
I actually love the Geordie accent.
-You like the Geordie accent?
-Yes. Give me a Scottish accent.
[in Scottish accent] Ooh!
Look at these baps.
Helena, look at those baps.
[Amelia] Time to get it out.
[Noel] An hour and a half in
and the first dough's prove is up.
It looks really good.
It's full of bubbles.
I'm gonna knock it back and shape it.
Well, you're supposed to knock it back,
but not vigorously.
You gotta be gentle with it.
You gotta treat it like a lady.
[Noel] Determined to land a win today,
Phil's opted for a victory wreath.
It'll be made with spelt, beetroot
and a herby green bread,
scored with laurel leaves.
The challenge is the scoring of it first,
that's the main aspect.
But you gotta have something
that looks and tastes good.
[Sandi] Hoping to tick both boxes...
[Michelle] I've gone with flavours
that we like as a family.
...Michelle's baking
a whole bunch of breads.
[Michelle] I've got two loaves.
One symbolizes a tree,
the other one is a flower.
And then I've got hedgehog, a snail,
a butterfly,
and some ladybirds and some bees.
'Cause that's what we've got
in our garden.
[Sandi] Michelle's making
semi-sourdough loaves,
scored with elaborate tree designs,
a white and rye butterfly
and a rye bread hedgehog and snail.
[Michelle] I'm all rye,
but it's quite dense.
It's really chewy and doughy.
I'm hoping Paul likes it, but I love it.
God, I just hope it works.
[Noel] Amelia is also inspired
by garden life,
but on a micro level.
[Amelia] I'm just shaping my caterpillar.
So that's like a not-to-scale sketch
of the whole thing.
That's the caterpillar, who's very happy.
That's the butterfly and the cocoon.
[Noel] Amelia's baking
a green spinach caterpillar,
a plain white cocoon
and a roasted red pepper butterfly,
sitting amidst garlic breadsticks
adorned with leaves and flowers.
[Amelia] I don't really know
the science of bread.
Nothing's gone wrong,
so I've got no reason to panic.
But you don't really know
if it's gone wrong until it's baked,
and by then it's too late.
[Sandi] Before the bakers can even think
about getting their dough in the oven...
I think I have to score it now.
...they must attempt
what this challenge is all about.
Oh, God. I'm not ready for this.
I don't wanna take this step.
It's too nerve-racking.
You know when
you feel so sick with nerves?
Don't overthink it.
Just do what you did at home, Priya.
Be calm, it's fine. It's just bread.
[Amelia] Here goes nothing.
Ah, pressure. This is fine
when I'm at home and I'm not shaking.
[Henry] Oh, shaky hands.
Why are there shaky hands?
[Michael] You don't want to go
too deep or too shallow.
You gotta go straight down
but you don't wanna go right at an angle.
Lots of don'ts, not sure about any dos.
[Noel] But the longer the bakers take
with their elaborate designs...
[Rosie] This is my giraffe.
I'm trying not to rush
and mess up my design.
...the more risk of the bread deflating.
Oh, no. I didn't look where I was going
with that line, I just drew.
[Alice] You don't wanna go too deep.
I don't want them to split open.
[Amelia] Is that deep enough?
Do these look like leaves?
[Helena] This is a spider web.
[Henry] Scoring's not ideal, but it was
always gonna be hard to score a fougasse.
[Alice] I need to get it in the oven.
[Amelia] You're going in the oven.
Do me proud, little peacock.
[Michael] That's a recognizable flame,
times one.
[Phil] About 35 minutes, this one.
[Sandi] It's crucial the bakers have
taken account of the size of their loaves
and calculated
their oven times accurately.
It's gonna go in for about 40 minutes.
I feel more nervous now.
Now that it's gone in, I'm like... [sighs]
[Amelia] Just my timings.
I can't figure out what's what.
Let's give it 20 to 25 minutes
then see what happens.
[Henry] I've got a good colour.
The scoring's not really defined,
but that's all right
'cause the main scoring
is gonna be on my rye loaves.
I've scored one of them too deeply
and it's opened up a lot.
[David] I'm having an absolute disaster.
This one's done a lovely split
completely in half.
-[Noel] I've made us eggs.
-Brilliant! Which one's mine?
-This one, obviously. [laughs]
-Thank you.
Er, bakers, you have two hours left.
Two hours left.
As yet more doughs
reach the end of their prove...
This is my elephant,
who has proved quite nicely.
It's really nice and stretchy.
...the bakers prepare
for their next bout of scoring.
You seen my blade?
Er, wow. That's not a good thing to lose.
Oh, it's there.
I've found it, I've found it.
I'm gonna go, 'cause you don't know
where you keep your razor blades.
Seems dangerous to me.
[Henry] Scoring needs to go well on these.
It's not feeling great, but there's still
gonna be bread at the end of it.
[Rosie] The key to getting this right
is the angle of the cuts.
I want my ears standing up.
They haven't deflated,
which is a nice surprise.
[Michael] I'm trying to score
a little less hard.
[Noel] Once carefully scored,
to avoid deflating,
it's essential the dough goes in the oven
within minutes,
once the earlier batches are out.
[Michelle] They look quite good.
It's been much better at home.
I think it's baked okay.
Does it look like the world?
Doesn't look too bad.
You can see what it's supposed to be.
I'm happy with that.
[Helena] I want it to be green,
like pumpkins are green
before they go orange.
Course it's stuck
to the sheet. [groans]
Wow, that's, er, one ugly mask.
I've got two scores
that are actually scores.
But everything else is basically torn
and looks terrible.
My bread might not be cooked.
Bakers, you have one hour.
[David] Here goes nothing
for the last one.
[Amelia] Last things to go in the oven.
They shouldn't take too long.
We're almost out of time.
[Sandi] The final batches of loaves,
both big and small, go in to bake.
[Helena] I've put the pumpkin loaf
in the oven, in a cast-iron pot,
because it gives you the perfect humidity
for a really crusty crust.
This is going in for about half an hour.
In the meantime,
I can de-paper these breads.
[Priya] Need to start painting.
The added bonus of painting
is that it can cover up
what they can see in the grooves.
[Michelle] It's a bit of decoration,
but I don't want it to be style
over substance.
[Henry] That's, I'd say, 89% bread.
Paul does not like eating paper.
He'll make a big fuss.
He'll go, "Urgh, help me."
[Phil] Just gotta wait now.
It's the waiting game.
[Steph] Quite a comfortable position,
as well.
This one's already tearing.
I think this potentially could be
the worst one yet. [chuckles]
-I'll direct this. Go.
-You ready?
-Go.
-Bakers, you have 15 minutes.
Argh! It looks done.
These might be overdone, actually.
They're quite dark.
[Rosie] I'd rather it was slightly over
than slightly under.
[Steph] It looks all right.
I can take that.
[Amelia] Luckily, they're ready,
or they'd better be.
[Sandi] That looks great.
-What is it meant to be, darling?
-[chuckles]
It's meant to be an African mask.
[Sandi] It's totally working for you.
You're rocking it.
-[Michael] Look at that rip.
-[Noel] Is that a rip?
-Not intentional.
-Through the universe?
I thought it was supposed to be like that.
If Paul says these are rips,
say, "They're rips in time, you idiot."
[Alice] Should be fine.
Then comes the judgement day.
You have five minutes.
This is my garden.
[Rosie] I've got to fit everything on.
I hope they're baked. I've not checked.
[Phil] This is just the design
that's on the award.
[David] If something's edible
at the end of the day, that's fine.
[Henry] The bread is good.
It's a good bake.
[Helena] I won't know if they're
baked inside until they open them.
Bakers, that is the end
of your Showstopper.
[Henry] The scoring could be better.
Oh, well, it's done now.
It's not quite the disaster it seemed
earlier in the day,
but it is still pretty much a disaster.
[Amelia] I don't know if it's cooked.
I think it is.
But if they're not cooked,
there's sod all I can do about it now.
[Noel] It's judgment time
for the bakers' Showstoppers.
[Sandi] Rosie, would you like
to bring up your Showstopper?
I think the scoring is very good.
What a fantastic effect
you've managed to get.
Likewise with the giraffe.
-Very clever.
-[Prue] And it's very original.
And I like the different way
that you've scored them all.
Different depths, so that you've got
thicker lines and thinner lines.
It's really clever.
It's a nice grey loaf.
-I've never had grey bread before.
-[laughing]
Could've done with a bit more salt.
Don't be afraid to add a bit more flavour.
I think this is delicious.
[Paul] They're baked beautifully.
They look great. Very artistic.
-And lots of perfect scoring.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Well done.
-[Paul] Thank you.
I love the definition in that one.
It's a nice-looking loaf.
[Prue] This one's really clever.
I mean, that's a pretty good,
recognisable globe.
That's very nice. The nuts and the seeds
give it a lovely flavour, too.
It could do with a bit more seasoning.
[Paul] Hm, it's a bit bland,
but the cuts are very good.
It's a nice-looking loaf.
Overall, you haven't done too bad.
-Thank you.
-[Prue] Thanks. Well done.
They are obviously African masks.
But this one, which is sort of broken,
it looks brilliant.
It looks like some artistic rendering
of a scary mask.
But that wasn't the challenge,
the challenge was to do
really good scoring.
-It's barely done.
-Mm-hmm.
[Paul] The idea was sound enough.
Disappointed.
And there's not enough salt in it.
All style and no substance.
-Cool, thank you.
-[Paul] Thank you very much.
[exhales sharply]
The whole thing is so imaginative
and so wonderful.
It's fantastic.
[Paul] You've lost a lot of definition
in the cuts with these.
I think that's because
I baked them in a pot.
[Paul] Could've left them
in the pot a little bit longer.
-It's a dense old loaf, that.
-[Prue] And quite heavy.
The only flavour you get is from
the crust where it's caramelised,
and the cuts are not good enough.
You know,
I wanted more emphasis on the cuts.
Got a nice bit of, erm...
Little bit of paper?
It's very typical fougasse, quite tough.
It's got great flavour.
But I have seen more decorative fougasses.
Fougasse is not really conducive
for heavy scoring.
Is it quite soft?
[Prue] That means more in the oven.
[Henry] Yes.
[Paul] More proving,
more time in the oven.
Nice flavour.
[Paul] The flavour's good.
The cuts are a bit ripped
rather than slashed through.
-It's a shame.
-Yeah.
-Thank you, Henry.
-Thank you.
It's highly effective.
It hasn't blown anywhere.
You could've left it in longer.
I was scared of that after yesterday.
The rosemary flavouring is just right.
You've well-baked
and well-proved your loaf.
Your structure's beautiful inside.
Love the cuts. Love the design.
-It's excellent, Steph.
-Oh, bless you.
-[Paul] Yeah, well done. That's very good.
-Thank you.
[Paul] You can see the cuts,
but you want to see
more definition in there.
I think you could've done more scoring
and less painting.
[Paul] Great structure inside.
You could've been more potent
with the flavours,
and the cuts a bit deeper.
-But nevertheless, two nice loaves.
-Okay.
It's very ingenious.
The scoring on the laurel leaves
around the edge is beautiful.
[Paul] That's beautifully baked.
-[Prue] Mm.
-[Paul] Wow, it's light.
It's all baked well and you have got
some scoring going on.
Not a huge amount.
But you've made up for it
because the bread is so delicious.
Thank you.
[Prue] It's really effective.
Some of your scoring is really neat
and beautiful.
I quite like the way
you've coloured the bigger scores.
You've lost some of the definition
in this.
[inaudible]
[Paul] It's quite smooth.
You expect these to be slightly risen up.
[Michelle] Mm-hmm.
I like the flavour.
I would've liked it a bit crustier.
I quite like the crust.
It goes all the way around about the same.
[Prue] Let's try the hedgehog.
-So, this is rye, is it?
-[Michelle] Yeah.
-Stodgy.
-[Paul] Quite dense.
I mean, rye is always going to be.
-However, they taste delicious.
-[Paul] Thank you.
It does look a bit clumsy, your scoring.
There's no finesse to it.
Love the design.
The design's very good,
but the baking is terrible.
Oh, dear.
Why did you bring them out so early?
See this one here, how soft they've gone?
They've always been quite soft
when I've practiced them.
-[Paul] Is there any flavour in this?
-That one's plain.
Are you sure this is underbaked?
[Paul] It needs more colour.
How long was it in there for?
-Twenty-five, half an hour?
-Yeah, twenty-five minutes tops.
Wow, a loaf that big.
It's 40 minutes before you start.
There's not much flavour to any of these.
Nothing.
You need to put flavours with them.
Put big, punchy flavours in there.
[Prue] This one's had
a bit of a burst out, hasn't it?
It's burst quite badly there.
Cut it slightly deeper
and it blew the whole thing out.
This one looks much nicer.
I think, overall, the actual image
of what you're trying to do is amazing.
The red in there looks attractive.
You painted that in.
It looks really nice.
-[Prue] Looks good.
-[Paul] Nice loaf.
The flavour is nice.
Design's good. The bake's all right.
I like it, even though
you've blown out there.
[exhales heavily]
It didn't go horribly, which is good.
[David] He said
it was style over substance.
That's pretty brutal.
[Amelia] I'm definitely at risk to go home
this week, which is absolutely gutting.
Keeping everything crossed.
I don't know if that'll be enough.
Let's start with the upbeat stuff.
Steph did very well.
Great display.
The scoring on everything was fantastic.
-[Sandi] Michael?
-[Paul] Michael's done well.
He managed to colour the inside,
but he had definition there.
-You could see there were flames.
-He did really well.
Who's at the bottom?
Who are we worrying about?
Henry.
Henry. You can't discount it,
even though he won
the Technical Challenge.
-Amelia.
-I think Amelia's in trouble.
I think you can put
Alice in there as well.
Still the possibility
two people will go home?
I think so.
[Noel] Hello, bakers.
I've got the great job this week
of announcing the person
who's won Star Baker.
The person who's won Star Baker
this week is...
Michael.
[clapping]
[Noel laughing]
I have the horrible job
of sending somebody home.
It gets tougher and tougher each week.
I'm afraid the person
who is leaving us is...
-Amelia.
-I knew it.
-[Sandi] I'm so sorry.
[Amelia] I'm absolutely gutted.
I've always, always said,
bread week for me will be about survival,
and I just didn't survive.
[Paul] Amelia's a decent baker,
it showed in her Showstopper.
The idea was sound enough
but it wasn't executed well.
She struggled in the Signature
and she was low down in the Technical.
-[Phil] I'm sorry to see you go.
-Thank you.
I'm sorry it wasn't a good Showstopper.
I did try.
Bread can take a hike.
I live to fight another day. Phew.
-[Paul] That was good.
-Thank you very much.
I'm a little overwhelmed.
[Phil] Good man. Well done.
Maybe I will try making bread again.
Maybe I'll do it a couple more times.
But I'll never score it again. [chuckles]
[Paul] Overall, Michael had a great week.
He did well in the Technical,
and the Showstopper he did really well.
He deserved Star Baker.
I can go home now. Tick, done.
Bake-Off, sorted. Finished. [chuckles]